LICENSE
MANIFEST.in
README.md
setup.cfg
setup.py
./README.md
./.pytest_cache/README.md
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/bleach-3.1.0.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/bleach/_vendor/html5lib-1.0.1.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/certifi-2019.3.9.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/chardet-3.0.4.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/docutils-0.14.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/html2text-2018.1.9.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/jdcal-1.4.1.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pyparsing-2.4.0.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/wcwidth-0.1.7.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/webencodings-0.5.1.dist-info/metadata.json
./.venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/xlwt-1.3.0.dist-info/metadata.json
./iambic/plays/a-midsummer-night-s-dream/A Midsummer Night's Dream.md
./iambic/plays/a-winter-s-tale/A Winter's Tale.md
./iambic/plays/all-s-well-that-ends-well/All's Well That Ends Well.md
./iambic/plays/antony-and-cleopatra/Antony and Cleopatra.md
./iambic/plays/as-you-like-it/As You Like It.md
./iambic/plays/coriolanus/Coriolanus.md
./iambic/plays/cymbeline/Cymbeline.md
./iambic/plays/edward-iii/Edward III.md
./iambic/plays/hamlet/Hamlet.md
./iambic/plays/henry-iv-part-1/Henry IV, Part 1.md
./iambic/plays/henry-iv-part-2/Henry IV, Part 2.md
./iambic/plays/henry-v/Henry V.md
./iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-1/Henry VI, Part 1.md
./iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-2/Henry VI, Part 2.md
./iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-3/Henry VI, Part 3.md
./iambic/plays/henry-viii/Henry VIII.md
./iambic/plays/julius-caesar/Julius Caesar.md
./iambic/plays/king-john/King John.md
./iambic/plays/king-lear/King Lear.md
./iambic/plays/love-s-labours-lost/Love's Labours Lost.md
./iambic/plays/macbeth/Macbeth.md
./iambic/plays/measure-for-measure/Measure for Measure.md
./iambic/plays/much-ado-about-nothing/Much Ado About Nothing.md
./iambic/plays/othello/Othello.md
./iambic/plays/pericles/Pericles.md
./iambic/plays/richard-ii/Richard II.md
./iambic/plays/richard-iii/Richard III.md
./iambic/plays/romeo-and-juliet/Romeo and Juliet.md
./iambic/plays/the-comedy-of-errors/The Comedy of Errors.md
./iambic/plays/the-merchant-of-venice/The Merchant of Venice.md
./iambic/plays/the-merry-wives-of-windsor/The Merry Wives of Windsor.md
./iambic/plays/the-taming-of-the-shrew/The Taming of the Shrew.md
./iambic/plays/the-tempest/The Tempest.md
./iambic/plays/timon-of-athens/Timon of Athens.md
./iambic/plays/titus-andronicus/Titus Andronicus.md
./iambic/plays/troilus-and-cressida/Troilus and Cressida.md
./iambic/plays/twelfth-night/Twelfth Night.md
./iambic/plays/two-gentlemen-of-verona/Two Gentlemen of Verona.md
./iambic/schema/schema.json
./tests/.pytest_cache/README.md
./tests/parse/.pytest_cache/README.md
./tests/render/.pytest_cache/README.md
./tests/static/foo-raw.md
./tests/static/foo.json
iambic/__about__.py
iambic/__init__.py
iambic/roman.py
iambic.egg-info/PKG-INFO
iambic.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
iambic.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
iambic.egg-info/requires.txt
iambic.egg-info/top_level.txt
iambic/ast/__init__.py
iambic/ast/base.py
iambic/ast/index.py
iambic/ast/node.py
iambic/bin/__init__.py
iambic/bin/cli.py
iambic/parse/__init__.py
iambic/parse/data.py
iambic/parse/text.py
iambic/plays/__init__.py
iambic/plays/a-midsummer-night-s-dream/A Midsummer Night's Dream.md
iambic/plays/a-winter-s-tale/A Winter's Tale.md
iambic/plays/all-s-well-that-ends-well/All's Well That Ends Well.md
iambic/plays/antony-and-cleopatra/Antony and Cleopatra.md
iambic/plays/as-you-like-it/As You Like It.md
iambic/plays/coriolanus/Coriolanus.md
iambic/plays/cymbeline/Cymbeline.md
iambic/plays/edward-iii/Edward III.md
iambic/plays/hamlet/Hamlet.md
iambic/plays/henry-iv-part-1/Henry IV, Part 1.md
iambic/plays/henry-iv-part-2/Henry IV, Part 2.md
iambic/plays/henry-v/Henry V.md
iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-1/Henry VI, Part 1.md
iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-2/Henry VI, Part 2.md
iambic/plays/henry-vi-part-3/Henry VI, Part 3.md
iambic/plays/henry-viii/Henry VIII.md
iambic/plays/julius-caesar/Julius Caesar.md
iambic/plays/king-john/King John.md
iambic/plays/king-lear/King Lear.md
iambic/plays/love-s-labours-lost/Love's Labours Lost.md
iambic/plays/macbeth/Macbeth.md
iambic/plays/measure-for-measure/Measure for Measure.md
iambic/plays/much-ado-about-nothing/Much Ado About Nothing.md
iambic/plays/othello/Othello.md
iambic/plays/pericles/Pericles.md
iambic/plays/richard-ii/Richard II.md
iambic/plays/richard-iii/Richard III.md
iambic/plays/romeo-and-juliet/Romeo and Juliet.md
iambic/plays/the-comedy-of-errors/The Comedy of Errors.md
iambic/plays/the-merchant-of-venice/The Merchant of Venice.md
iambic/plays/the-merry-wives-of-windsor/The Merry Wives of Windsor.md
iambic/plays/the-taming-of-the-shrew/The Taming of the Shrew.md
iambic/plays/the-tempest/The Tempest.md
iambic/plays/timon-of-athens/Timon of Athens.md
iambic/plays/titus-andronicus/Titus Andronicus.md
iambic/plays/troilus-and-cressida/Troilus and Cressida.md
iambic/plays/twelfth-night/Twelfth Night.md
iambic/plays/two-gentlemen-of-verona/Two Gentlemen of Verona.md
iambic/render/__init__.py
iambic/render/html.py
iambic/render/json.py
iambic/render/markdown.py
iambic/render/table.py
iambic/schema/__init__.py
iambic/schema/dataschema.py
iambic/schema/frozendict.py
iambic/schema/schema.json
tests/parse/__init__.py
tests/parse/test_data.py
tests/parse/test_text.py
tests/render/__init__.py
tests/render/test_html.py
tests/render/test_json.py
tests/render/test_markdown.py
tests/static/__init__.py
tests/static/parsed.py
tests/static/table.py